A person who does not read has no advantage over a person who cannot read - Mark Twain For many of us reading books and learning stops with the completion of our degrees. After finishing our studies we rarely give any time to reading apart from reading newspapers and magazines once in while but unfortunately most of that time is spent reading gossips and celebrity news. Even Charlie Munger, the renowned partner of The Legendary Investor Warren Buffett told the outgoing class of University of Southern California, You are not going to get very far in life based on what you already know. You are going to advance in life by what you are going to learn after you leave here. This signifies the importance of learning as this message was given to one of the best law schools of America. So I hope you can understand the importance of lifelong learning especially in our context.
|
|This is not to say that reading equals learning but reading is one of the first and most basic step towards learning and improving ourselves. By reading we learn to walk on the shoulders of the giants, we learn from their mistakes and their experiences. Basically we avoid the process of reinvention of wheel every time we try to do a new thing. All successful people have at least one book which they term as their favourites or even go as far as to credit those books for their success in life, but if we delve deeper into it, we will find that most of them have been voracious readers throughout their lives and their knowledge is not constrained to simply those one or two books. Examples of such personalities can be seen in Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos, Warren Buffett, Steve Jobs etc. Coincidentally first three are also the three richest persons in the world. But my point is not to show that learning is correlated to wealth, although a number of researches do show a very high correlation between lifelong learning and wealth, on the contrary there is a low correlation between education and wealth.
|
|How do we learn
|Now the next logical question is how to move from reading to learning. As I said previously learning cannot be ascribed to simply reading and remembering, in fact it has to be put in practice or to give it a more deserving title, Deliberate Practice. For further information on deliberate practice you can refer to a wonderful article by Shane Parrish on his blog Farnam Street. There can be denying of the fact that doing the work gives us much more practical knowledge compared to talking about it or reading about it, a famous chinese proverb also states that  It's better to walk 10,000 miles than to read 10,000 books, but I think that the proverb can be improved by changing it to Its better to read 10,000 books and then walk 10,000 miles. Reading but not implementing or learning from it leads us to overestimate ourselves, removes us from ground realities and turns us into armchair theorists. So according to me execution and reading have to go hand in hand. This is how we truly learn and this is how knowledge turns into wisdom.